docs/guides/migration/v2.5.md, before:

# v2.5 - Not yet released

More details can be found in the related [milestone](https://github.com/kalisio/kdk/milestone/13) on GitHub.

## Major breaking changes

💥 Exposed properties changed in composable `activity.js`. `state`, `options` and `name` properties are now exposed using a more global object `CurrentActivityContext` which is reactive (see https://github.com/kalisio/kdk/issues/1055). 

::: tip 
To retrieve the `state` of the `CurrentActivity` you can now proceed that way:

```js
const { CurrentActivityContext } = useCurrentActivity()
const { state } = CurrentActivityContext
```
:::

::: warning
When using the composable `activity.js` from an another composable be aware that the `CurrentActivity` is not set and the `CurrentActivityContext` exposed properties are `null`. You should watch the `CurrentActivity` value to use the `CurrentActivityContext`object.
:::

💥 Renamed composable file `counter.js` to `collection-counter.js`. Therefore, the `useCounter` function is renamed to `useCollectionCounter`. 

💥 `KChip` has been redesigned, and its API has changed significantly.

💥 `KChipsPane` has been removed.

## Major new features

👉 New `KRequestProgressBar` component to be used in your `App.vue` or equivalent in order to display a progress bar whenever a request to the server is processing.

👉 New `useErrors()` composable to be used in your `App.vue` or equivalent in order to display a notification whenever a request to the server raises an error.

👉 Ability for JWTs to target a user using others properties than the user ID, applications should allow this in their authentication configuration otherwise the default behavior still relies on the user ID.

::: details ⬇️ Example of an authentication configuration to allow JWT identifying a user by email
```js
// default.js of your application, assuming your user objects have an email properties
authentication: {
	identityFields: ['email'],
	...
}
```

Your JWT can now be issued [as usual](https://kalisio.github.io/skeleton/guides/development/tips.html#personal-access-token) but using a payload like this:
```json
{
  "aud": "kalisio.xyz",
  "iss": "kalisio",
  "exp": 1552402010,
  "sub": "user_email@gmail.com"
}
```
:::

👉 New `KOAuthLoginScreen` and `KOAuthLogouScreen` components to be used in your app when relying on an OAuth provider instead of local authentication.

::: details ⬇️ Example of configurations to be used to allow single login/logout with a `keycloak` provider
```js
// frontend route.js of your application
{
  login: 'screen/KOAuthLoginScreen',
  'logout/:provider?': {
    name: 'logout',
    component: 'screen/KOAuthLogoutScreen',
    ...
  },
  ...
}
// frontend default.js of your application
screens: {
  login: {
    actions: [
      { id: 'keycloak-link', label: 'screen.LOGIN_WITH_KEYCLOAK', renderer: 'form-button', route: { url: '/oauth/keycloak' } }
    ]
  }
},
leftPane: {
  content: [
    ...,
    { id: 'logout', icon: 'las la-sign-out-alt', label: 'layout.LOGOUT', route: { name: 'logout', params: { provider: 'keycloak' } }, renderer: 'item' }
  ]
},
...

// backend default.js of your application
authentication: {
  oauth: {
    keycloak: {
      ...,
      logout_url: `${keycloakBaseUrl}/logout`
    }
  }
  ...
}
```
:::

👉 New `logout` custom method and related custom event that can be sent from server to connected clients whenever a user has logout from one client of your application.

::: details ⬇️ How you can call it to logout all clients
```js
// channels.js of your application
app.on('logout', (authResult, { connection }) => {
  // connection can be undefined if there is no
  // real-time connection, e.g. when logging in via REST
  if (connection) {
    // Obtain the logged user from the connection
    const user = connection.user
    const usersService = app.getService('users')
    usersService.logout(user)
  }
})
const usersService = app.getService('users')
usersService.publish('logout', (data, hook) => {
  const user = data
  // Publish logout event to target user only
  return app.channel('authenticated').filter(connection => {
    const connectionUser = connection.user
    return user && connectionUser && connectionUser._id.toString() === user._id.toString()
  })
})
```

On the client side the [session composable](../../api/core/composables#usesession) will listen to this event automatically to redirect the user to the logout page.
:::

👉 The `declareService` client method should now be replaced by [`createService`](../../api/core/application#createservice-name-options) like on the server side in order to initialize the required services for your app upfront.
The [`getService`](../../api/core/application#getservice-name-context) client method now relies on this declaration to return the appropriate service when not explicitely providing the context as input parameter.

Commit message:

docs: added stickies  breaking change

docs/guides/migration/v2.5.md, after:

# v2.5 - Not yet released

More details can be found in the related [milestone](https://github.com/kalisio/kdk/milestone/13) on GitHub.

## Major breaking changes

💥 Exposed properties changed in composable `activity.js`. `state`, `options` and `name` properties are now exposed using a more global object `CurrentActivityContext` which is reactive (see https://github.com/kalisio/kdk/issues/1055). 

::: tip 
To retrieve the `state` of the `CurrentActivity` you can now proceed that way:

```js
const { CurrentActivityContext } = useCurrentActivity()
const { state } = CurrentActivityContext
```
:::

::: warning
When using the composable `activity.js` from an another composable be aware that the `CurrentActivity` is not set and the `CurrentActivityContext` exposed properties are `null`. You should watch the `CurrentActivity` value to use the `CurrentActivityContext`object.
:::

💥 Renamed composable file `counter.js` to `collection-counter.js`. Therefore, the `useCounter` function is renamed to `useCollectionCounter`. 

💥 `KChip` has been redesigned, and its API has changed significantly.

💥 `KChipsPane` has been removed.

💥 The components intended to be used as [sticky](https://quasar.dev/layout/page-sticky/) elements are now grouped in the [stickies directory](https://github.com/kalisio/kdk/tree/master/map/client/components/stickies).

💥 `KLevelSlider` has been redesigned to use [Quasar Slider](https://quasar.dev/vue-components/slider). The `vue-slider-component` dependency is no longer required.

## Major new features

👉 New `KRequestProgressBar` component to be used in your `App.vue` or equivalent in order to display a progress bar whenever a request to the server is processing.

👉 New `useErrors()` composable to be used in your `App.vue` or equivalent in order to display a notification whenever a request to the server raises an error.

👉 Ability for JWTs to target a user using others properties than the user ID, applications should allow this in their authentication configuration otherwise the default behavior still relies on the user ID.

::: details ⬇️ Example of an authentication configuration to allow JWT identifying a user by email
```js
// default.js of your application, assuming your user objects have an email properties
authentication: {
	identityFields: ['email'],
	...
}
```

Your JWT can now be issued [as usual](https://kalisio.github.io/skeleton/guides/development/tips.html#personal-access-token) but using a payload like this:
```json
{
  "aud": "kalisio.xyz",
  "iss": "kalisio",
  "exp": 1552402010,
  "sub": "user_email@gmail.com"
}
```
:::

👉 New `KOAuthLoginScreen` and `KOAuthLogouScreen` components to be used in your app when relying on an OAuth provider instead of local authentication.

::: details ⬇️ Example of configurations to be used to allow single login/logout with a `keycloak` provider
```js
// frontend route.js of your application
{
  login: 'screen/KOAuthLoginScreen',
  'logout/:provider?': {
    name: 'logout',
    component: 'screen/KOAuthLogoutScreen',
    ...
  },
  ...
}
// frontend default.js of your application
screens: {
  login: {
    actions: [
      { id: 'keycloak-link', label: 'screen.LOGIN_WITH_KEYCLOAK', renderer: 'form-button', route: { url: '/oauth/keycloak' } }
    ]
  }
},
leftPane: {
  content: [
    ...,
    { id: 'logout', icon: 'las la-sign-out-alt', label: 'layout.LOGOUT', route: { name: 'logout', params: { provider: 'keycloak' } }, renderer: 'item' }
  ]
},
...

// backend default.js of your application
authentication: {
  oauth: {
    keycloak: {
      ...,
      logout_url: `${keycloakBaseUrl}/logout`
    }
  }
  ...
}
```
:::

👉 New `logout` custom method and related custom event that can be sent from server to connected clients whenever a user has logout from one client of your application.

::: details ⬇️ How you can call it to logout all clients
```js
// channels.js of your application
app.on('logout', (authResult, { connection }) => {
  // connection can be undefined if there is no
  // real-time connection, e.g. when logging in via REST
  if (connection) {
    // Obtain the logged user from the connection
    const user = connection.user
    const usersService = app.getService('users')
    usersService.logout(user)
  }
})
const usersService = app.getService('users')
usersService.publish('logout', (data, hook) => {
  const user = data
  // Publish logout event to target user only
  return app.channel('authenticated').filter(connection => {
    const connectionUser = connection.user
    return user && connectionUser && connectionUser._id.toString() === user._id.toString()
  })
})
```

On the client side the [session composable](../../api/core/composables#usesession) will listen to this event automatically to redirect the user to the logout page.
:::

👉 The `declareService` client method should now be replaced by [`createService`](../../api/core/application#createservice-name-options) like on the server side in order to initialize the required services for your app upfront.
The [`getService`](../../api/core/application#getservice-name-context) client method now relies on this declaration to return the appropriate service when not explicitely providing the context as input parameter.
